 # Open PARADIGM-ICE 
Open PARADIGM-ICE is an open-source reference implementation of the Integrated Clinical Environment (ICE) Standards AAMi2700-1 built on OpenICE. The OpenICE research platform has been used to support investigations into architecture, interoperability, cybersecurity, and medical device informatics aspects of a wide range of novel platform-based, networked, medical applications. 
 
Based on OpenICE, Open PARADIGM-ICE is intended to support research, requirements development, and prototyping for the MIoT to be deployed on the Care Delivery Platform (CDP) for the ARPA-H PARADIGM project that will deliver hospital-level care wherever it is needed. https://arpa-h.gov/explore-funding/programs/paradigm 
 
# Getting Started 
You can build and run the main Open PARADIGM-ICE application with one gradle task.

    ./gradlew :interop-lab:demo-apps:run

 
# Capabilities 
Example capabilities provided by the Open PARADIGM-ICE platform include: 
 
- Device Simulators: To accelerate end-to-end development without reliance on physical medical devices, the team is developing simulators that generate clinically plausible data for realistic workflow and integration testing. An example is the Abbott Piccolo Xpress point-of-care chemistry analyzer, which produces lab result patterns consistent with patient conditions (e.g., renal failure). 
 
- Device Driver Development: The platform accelerates driver creation through a three-step approach: an IDE toolset for code scaffolding, standardized driver data validation, and data model harmonization to facilitate interoperability. 
 
- EHR Integration: The platform has established a bi-directional communication pipeline with OpenEMR using OAuth2 authentication. This integration enables the synchronization of patient demographics and vital signs, as well as the transmission of lab orders and results using HL7 standards  
 
- Automatic Validation: The platform hosts an Automatic Validation application designed to check the accuracy, integrity, and clinical plausibility of data generated by medical devices. This capability currently performs Level 1 validation (integrity/plausibility) and partial Level 2 validation, such as cross-verifying heart rate data from orthogonal sources like an Electrocardiogram (ECG) and pulse oximeter to filter spurious sensor readings.  
 
- Safety Interlocks: To enhance patient safety procedures, the team developed the Chemotherapy Infusion Safety Application. This prototype application implements a safety interlock that monitors data trends from connected devices and automatically instructs an infusion pump to pause therapy if a patient's vital signs (e.g., heart rate, oxygen saturation, blood pressure) fall outside clinician-set safe ranges.  
 
 
# Disclaimer 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content on this GitHub code repository is currently confidential and intended solely for authorized users. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure, or distribution of this content is strictly prohibited.
